# Notes on 27 April 2021

## Agenda

- FastAI.jl NUMFOCUS grant
- Parameter groups

## Minutes

### FastAI.jl updates

Lorenz received a NUMFOCUS grant to work on FastAI.jl through mid-July.
- Contributions will be focused around vision methods
- Currently adding the [data augmentation support][1] for this work
- Planning to add multi-label image classification, key point detection, and image segmentation

### Parameter group discussion

Initial idea spawned trying to [implement discriminative learning rates][2]. While not strictly necessary for this feature, parameter groups could enable a generalization of discriminative LRs.
- Want to associate different optimizers/optimization procedures with different subset of the model
- Parameter groups are a data structure that maps each parameter into a group (then we associate groups with each optimizer)

This could also help build interface to updating multiple models at once. Currently, we expect models to be a single struct, but that’s not always convenient. We are able to train multiple models in conjunction right now, but the interfaces are not set up to make this as easy as vanilla use-cases.

Brian suggested that the idea of a parameter group is similar to the mechanism underlying lenses. We want to find a path into a deeply nested data structure. A “parameter group” could be an operation that accepts a model then follows “paths” into the model to extract a collection of parameters.

Dhairya mentioned that in the long term, we will directly pass in the model. So, we don’t need to pair parameters with structure (the model itself already encodes that pairing).

There was a long discussion on wrapping models vs wrapping optimizers. In the end, we decided wrapping optimizers was more natural.

[1]:	https://fluxml.ai/FastAI.jl/dev/docs/howto/augmentvision.md.html
[2]:	https://github.com/FluxML/FastAI.jl/issues/35